CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to meshbbs

Thank you for your interest in contributing to meshbbs! This document provides guidelines for contributing to the project.

**📋 Testing Requirement: All code contributions must include appropriate unit tests. Pull requests without test coverage will not be accepted.**

## Code of Conduct

By participating in this project, you agree to maintain a respectful and inclusive environment for all contributors.

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Rust 1.82 or higher
- Git
- A Meshtastic device for testing (optional but recommended)

### Development Setup

1. Fork the repository on GitHub
2. Clone your fork locally:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/your-username/meshbbs.git
   cd meshbbs
   ```
3. Create a new branch for your feature:
   ```bash
   git checkout -b feature/your-feature-name
   ```
4. Build the project:
   ```bash
   cargo build
   ```
5. Run tests to ensure everything works:
   ```bash
   cargo test
   ```

## Making Changes

### Code Style

- Follow standard Rust formatting using `rustfmt`:
  ```bash
  cargo fmt
  ```
- Use `clippy` to catch common issues:
  ```bash
  cargo clippy
  ```
- Write clear, self-documenting code with appropriate comments
- Add documentation for public APIs

### Commit Guidelines

- Write clear, descriptive commit messages
- Use present tense ("Add feature" not "Added feature")
- Reference issues and pull requests when applicable
- Keep commits focused and atomic

### Testing

- Add tests for new functionality
- Ensure all existing tests pass
- Test with actual Meshtastic hardware when possible
- Document any new testing procedures
- Include tests for error conditions and edge cases

## Types of Contributions

### Bug Reports

When reporting bugs, please include:
- Clear description of the issue
- Steps to reproduce
- Expected vs actual behavior
- Environment details (OS, Rust version, hardware)
- Relevant log output

### Feature Requests

For new features:
- Describe the use case and motivation
- Provide detailed specifications when possible
- Consider backwards compatibility
- Discuss implementation approach

## Code Contributions Requirements

### Testing Expectations

All code contributions should include appropriate tests to ensure quality and prevent regressions:

- **Unit Tests**: Test individual functions and methods in isolation
- **Integration Tests**: Test component interactions and workflows  
- **Security Tests**: Test authentication, authorization, and security boundaries (when applicable)
- **Error Handling Tests**: Test failure scenarios and edge cases

### Code Contribution Types

1. **Small fixes**: Direct pull requests are welcome
2. **New features**: Please open an issue first to discuss
3. **Breaking changes**: Require discussion and planning

## Pull Request Process

1. Update documentation as needed
2. Add tests for your changes
3. Ensure `cargo test` and `cargo clippy` pass
4. Update CHANGELOG.md with your changes
5. Submit pull request with clear description
6. Respond to review feedback promptly

### Pull Request Template

```markdown
## Description
Brief description of changes

## Related Issue
Fixes #(issue number)

## Type of Change
- [ ] Bug fix
- [ ] New feature
- [ ] Breaking change
- [ ] Documentation update

## Testing
- [ ] Tests pass locally (`cargo test`)
- [ ] New tests added for changes
- [ ] Integration tests added (if applicable)
- [ ] Tested with hardware (if applicable)

## Checklist
- [ ] Code follows project style (`cargo fmt`)
- [ ] Linting passes (`cargo clippy`)
- [ ] Self-review completed
- [ ] Documentation updated
- [ ] CHANGELOG.md updated
```

## Development Guidelines

### Architecture

- Follow the existing modular structure
- Keep modules focused and cohesive
- Use appropriate error handling with `anyhow`
- Prefer async/await for I/O operations

### Dependencies

- Avoid unnecessary dependencies
- Prefer well-maintained crates
- Document why specific dependencies are needed
- Consider optional features for heavy dependencies

### Documentation

- Document all public APIs
- Include examples in documentation
- Update README.md for user-facing changes
- Maintain inline code comments for complex logic

### TinyMUSH contributions

TinyMUSH work introduces tighter guardrails so that gameplay remains mesh-friendly:

- **Honor the 200-byte budget** for every user-facing message (DM prompts, room descriptions, help text).  Run `just utf8-check --limit 200 <path-or-glob>` before opening a PR to verify your payloads, and add a regression test when you fix an over-budget message.
- **Keep door toggles accurate.**  Whenever you add or rename a TinyMUSH door, update `GamesConfig` defaults, `config.example.toml`, and in-flight documentation (`docs/user-guide/games.md`, `docs/qa/200-byte-compliance.md`).
- **Store scripted transcripts under `tests/test-data-int/`.**  Check them with the UTF-8 validator so integration tests can copy/paste safe output.
- **Add checklist updates** in `docs/qa/200-byte-compliance.md` describing the scenarios you covered (new commands, tutorials, events) so QA can replay them on hardware.
- **Prefer deterministic tests.**  Use helpers like `find_path_to_new_tile` in `tests/tinyhack_minimap.rs` when randomness might cause flakiness.

## Communication

- Use GitHub Issues for bug reports and feature requests
- Tag maintainers for urgent issues
- Be patient and respectful in all interactions
- Provide constructive feedback in reviews

## License

By contributing to meshbbs, you agree that your contributions will be licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial 4.0 International License.

## Recognition

Contributors will be recognized in:
- CHANGELOG.md for their contributions
- GitHub contributors list
- Project documentation (for significant contributions)

## Questions?

If you have questions about contributing, please:
1. Check existing issues and documentation
2. Open a new issue with the "question" label
3. Contact the maintainer: martinbogo@gmail.com

Thank you for contributing to meshbbs! 🚀

Commit message:

docs: establish zero-tolerance policy for compiler warnings
Add comprehensive warning-free development standards:

- Zero tolerance for compiler warnings in all builds and tests
- Policy documented in CONTRIBUTING.md, TODO.md, and new DEVELOPMENT_STANDARDS.md
- Enforcement guidelines for pull requests and CI/CD
- Rationale and tools documentation for maintaining clean builds

This ensures MeshBBS maintains professional code quality standards and prevents
warning buildup that can mask real issues. All future contributions must have
clean builds with zero warnings before merging.

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to meshbbs

Thank you for your interest in contributing to meshbbs! This document provides guidelines for contributing to the project.

**📋 Testing Requirement: All code contributions must include appropriate unit tests. Pull requests without test coverage will not be accepted.**

## Code of Conduct

By participating in this project, you agree to maintain a respectful and inclusive environment for all contributors.

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Rust 1.82 or higher
- Git
- A Meshtastic device for testing (optional but recommended)

### Development Setup

1. Fork the repository on GitHub
2. Clone your fork locally:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/your-username/meshbbs.git
   cd meshbbs
   ```
3. Create a new branch for your feature:
   ```bash
   git checkout -b feature/your-feature-name
   ```
4. Build the project:
   ```bash
   cargo build
   ```
5. Run tests to ensure everything works:
   ```bash
   cargo test
   ```

## Making Changes

### Code Style

- Follow standard Rust formatting using `rustfmt`:
  ```bash
  cargo fmt
  ```
- Use `clippy` to catch common issues:
  ```bash
  cargo clippy
  ```
- Write clear, self-documenting code with appropriate comments
- Add documentation for public APIs

### Commit Guidelines

- Write clear, descriptive commit messages
- Use present tense ("Add feature" not "Added feature")
- Reference issues and pull requests when applicable
- Keep commits focused and atomic

### Testing

- Add tests for new functionality
- Ensure all existing tests pass
- Test with actual Meshtastic hardware when possible
- Document any new testing procedures
- Include tests for error conditions and edge cases

## Types of Contributions

### Bug Reports

When reporting bugs, please include:
- Clear description of the issue
- Steps to reproduce
- Expected vs actual behavior
- Environment details (OS, Rust version, hardware)
- Relevant log output

### Feature Requests

For new features:
- Describe the use case and motivation
- Provide detailed specifications when possible
- Consider backwards compatibility
- Discuss implementation approach

## Code Contributions Requirements

### Testing Expectations

All code contributions should include appropriate tests to ensure quality and prevent regressions:

- **Unit Tests**: Test individual functions and methods in isolation
- **Integration Tests**: Test component interactions and workflows  
- **Security Tests**: Test authentication, authorization, and security boundaries (when applicable)
- **Error Handling Tests**: Test failure scenarios and edge cases

### Code Contribution Types

1. **Small fixes**: Direct pull requests are welcome
2. **New features**: Please open an issue first to discuss
3. **Breaking changes**: Require discussion and planning

## Pull Request Process

1. Update documentation as needed
2. Add tests for your changes
3. Ensure `cargo test` and `cargo clippy` pass
4. Update CHANGELOG.md with your changes
5. Submit pull request with clear description
6. Respond to review feedback promptly

### Pull Request Template

```markdown
## Description
Brief description of changes

## Related Issue
Fixes #(issue number)

## Type of Change
- [ ] Bug fix
- [ ] New feature
- [ ] Breaking change
- [ ] Documentation update

## Testing
- [ ] Tests pass locally (`cargo test`)
- [ ] New tests added for changes
- [ ] Integration tests added (if applicable)
- [ ] Tested with hardware (if applicable)

## Checklist
- [ ] Code follows project style (`cargo fmt`)
- [ ] Linting passes (`cargo clippy`)
- [ ] Self-review completed
- [ ] Documentation updated
- [ ] CHANGELOG.md updated
```

## Development Guidelines

### Architecture

- Follow the existing modular structure
- Keep modules focused and cohesive
- Use appropriate error handling with `anyhow`
- Prefer async/await for I/O operations

### Dependencies

- Avoid unnecessary dependencies
- Prefer well-maintained crates
- Document why specific dependencies are needed
- Consider optional features for heavy dependencies

### Documentation

- Document all public APIs
- Include examples in documentation
- Update README.md for user-facing changes
- Maintain inline code comments for complex logic

### TinyMUSH Development

- Follow the phased implementation plan in `docs/development/TINYMUSH_IMPLEMENTATION_PLAN.md`
- Reference the detailed design in `docs/development/MUD_MUSH_DESIGN.md`
- All TinyMUSH features must respect the 200-byte message limit
- Update the TODO.md checklist as phases are completed
- **Critical**: Fix all compiler warnings before committing - no warnings allowed in builds or tests

## Communication

- Use GitHub Issues for bug reports and feature requests
- Tag maintainers for urgent issues
- Be patient and respectful in all interactions
- Provide constructive feedback in reviews

## License

By contributing to meshbbs, you agree that your contributions will be licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial 4.0 International License.

## Recognition

Contributors will be recognized in:
- CHANGELOG.md for their contributions
- GitHub contributors list
- Project documentation (for significant contributions)

## Questions?

If you have questions about contributing, please:
1. Check existing issues and documentation
2. Open a new issue with the "question" label
3. Contact the maintainer: martinbogo@gmail.com

Thank you for contributing to meshbbs! 🚀
